.. link:
.. description:
.. tags: mobile, future
.. date: 2013/06/23 00:08:18
.. title: Why mobile is broken for me
.. slug: why-mobile-is-broken-for-me

Today I walk around with me three things on my person: a wallet, a smartphone,
and a set of keys. Why can't these three things all be the same device? In
addition, I pay to carry a mobile hotspot around as a separate device sometimes.
Why can't I use my phone as a mobile hotspot regularly with real unlimited data?
The former problem is an innovation problem. The latter is a service problem.

A Virtual Keyring
-----------------

Sure, by now, you have heard of Lockitron, August, or similar technologies
built around the home keyhole. Last time I checked, I have more keys on my
keyring than just my apartment key.

I also have a car key and a postbox key. For the car, companies like Viper have
come up with an app that can lock and unlock your car over a cellular network.
This does not seem like the future I want. How hard would it be to emulate a
key fob radio physically in a phone? Could phones have software-defined radios?

Secondly, with the postbox key, granted, I live in an apartment so most
homeowners probably don't have a postbox key. I could also do without physical
mail if I signed up for a service like Outbox, but that comes with its own set
of problems.

A keyring should be an app on my phone, that's all I am saying.

A Mobile Wallet
---------------

Next, for the wallet, I carry membership cards, gift cards, debit/credit cards,
ID cards, and sometimes cash. Credit cards are already being eaten away by the
likes of ISIS and Square. Insurance cards and membership cards I probably could
store as photos assuming the vendor allows me to type in the ID number. Some
member cards, like Starbucks, are already pure digital apps.

The biggest obstacle that I'm not aware of being solved any time soon is the
digitalization of ID cards. Effectively, the government would have to rely on a
certain level of security and ubiquity to allow for digital IDs. While it might
introduce new problems, the problem of fake IDs as it exists now could be
eradicated.

Mobile Internet Service
-----------------------

So, now I have my wallet and keyring in my phone, what's next? Well, how about
Internet service? Do you have a landline or wireless service? I currently carry
wireless service through Clear. Clear operates over Sprint's networks. So, why
can't I have my phone operate as an unlimited data mobile hotspot on Sprint if
I can already do that by carrying around an extra hotspot? It doesn't make sense
to me.

----

These are all small, solvable modern problems. A decade from now I look forward
to this technology becoming obsolete. We'll see where we're headed next then.
